JaveScript is a Synchronus(executes in a specific order -> can only go to the next line once the current line is finished executing), single threaded (can only execute
one command at a time) language.


Execution context: 
Everything in JS happens inside execution context. an execution context is an abstract concept of an environment where the Javascript code is 
evaluated and executed. Whenever any code is run in JavaScript, it runs inside an execution context.The global execution context is created when a JavaScript script 
first starts to run, and it represents the global scope in JavaScript. A function execution context is created whenever a function is called, representing the 
function's local scope. 

It has 2 components:

1. Memory Component (variable environment, memory creation phase): where all the variables and functions are stored as key-value pairs. It goes throught the entire code
, allocates and reserves a memory for them. variables are intilialised with value undefined (a: undefined)and for functions it stores the whole code in memory space.
2. Code Component (Thread of execution, code execution phase): This is the place where code is executed one line at a time. in the second phase of creation of execution 
context which is code execution phase, the value of variables will actually get initialised (a=2). whenever a new function is INVOKED (actually called), a new functional 
execution context is created , in it's memory comp., it stores parameters and other variable and fucntions inside that function. Then hwen it encounters return keyword,
it return the control back to the execution context where the functions was invoked and that functional execution context is deleted. 

CALL STACK : 
It is like a real stack in data structures where data can be pushed and popped and follows the LIFO principle. We use call stack for memorizing which function is
running right now. Basically, a Javascript engine uses a call stack to manage execution context. When JS fucntion is run, the javascript engine builds a global 
execution context and pushes it to the top of the call stack. and when a function is called the javascript engine constructs a context for the function execution, 
places it at the top of the call stack, and begins the function’s execution. if the function calls another function javascript engine creates a new function execution 
context and pushes it to the top of the call stack. when it encoutners the return keyword that Exe. context is popped out. In the end, the Global execution context is
also deleted and the stack becomes empty.
In short , call stack maintains the order of execution of execution Contexts.
